---
layout: post
title: "The Syndrome"
description: "New hacker space"
category: Blog
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


	



So, when I was in grade 3-4 I had realized that there was __a__ smartest kid in the class, and he wasn't me, or at least he knew a lot more of the answers than I did.  By chance I also had a brother who always did stupid things. This luck provided the ideal environment for studying others and how they act; know what the smart kid knows, don't do what the dumb-ass does.  It worked out quiet well for me and I avoided some painful teenage years due to this strategy.  My brother got drunk and crashed cars, my brother was insecure and didn't know how to speak to girls Know what I mean <br> <small>( see Monty Python's "Candid Photography)</small>?.

I was quiet inspired by Robert(the smartest kid), I wouldn't even call him competition.  He was brought up by his British grandparents who had quiet a worldly education and it showed in Robert.  He knew who the name of the King or Queen for several countries that I had never heard of.  So there *was* an intelligence gap.  Most of the children respected the fact that Robert was way more informed than we.  We would also ask him about things if we didn't know the answer, and Robert would often say "well duhuh!" followed by something like "Africa isn't a Country!" 
<br><small>( I am sure you have chuckled at this too).</small>

There is a subtlety to this kind of response, it's a kind-of-dismissiveness that is the product of indifference, and it is patronizing.  Robert knew  the answer to these questions, and knew them well, he even knew much about subtle details of such questions.  Yes, to him, the questions were boring and so were ___we___.

Later that year I started to notice a trait that was appearing in Robert as he started to shine as a model student.  It was interesting because I realized we could all make this mistake if we didn't pay attention.  The trait?  Robert had realized that he was the smartest kid in the class, and what stemmed from that was the affect that he no longer listened to us when we spoke; our answers couldn't be correct because he knew all the answers, and "thus" none of us could know the answers <small> This is one of the logical failures of this complex, I call it ___the smartest kid in the class syndrome___.  That is, he believed that, if he didn't know the answer we couldn't know it.</small> 

This trait was better shown by our teacher when the teacher asked "what planet has rings?", excited by the recent news, I called out "Mercury!", to which the teacher laughed <small> Amused but dismissive</small> and then corrected me "No, it is Saturn"  -- I guess I read the newspaper and my teacher didn't<small> As it turns out apparently it doesn't have rings now, but may have in the passed.</small> .  The failure here wasn't that I was wrong, it is that he didn't even consider the idea that I might know what I was talking about, even when I told him about the news paper the teacher just assumed I was making it all up.

The reluctance to listen to others, had its obvious effects on Robert, I had noticed on several occasions that he refused to listen to others when he didn't know the answer, and furthermore, he wasn't that nice to deal with if you where known as a dummy. <small> He didn't suffer idiots gladly as the saying goes</small> .

It is interesting to note, however, that we are talking about the retention  of informations, and what's more, the access to information.
   -- Nature nurture:  the perfect seed with no food, and no light will probably not even start the growing process ( beyond the food reserves in the seed itself ) yet, one of the least healthy seeds placed in the nourished with perfect food and light would grow to the seeds best potential (this is a debate but we do see that this argument is obvious in extreme cases).
Now, I won't argue that I didn't have access to information nor will I claim to have great retention of information.  --For the most, part stuff just bored me.

One of my teachers, Mrs. Cameron, was a woman in her 80s that had started teaching in the 1930s.  -- The condition known as ADHD would not be know until years after her retiring-- .  She was so tired of me being so 'high energy' and paying little  attention in class, that she asked that I be placed in an institution. But this required an IQ test.


The Dr was frustrated, yet elated at the idea that I was sent to him 'presenting as a deficient child'.  He was conflicted with the idea that a teacher could have had a child with an IQ of 146 in her midst and misdiagnose it so poorly.  That is, my IQ is on the sunny side of the curve.  His report noted that 'this child is certainly the most intelligent, youth to have ever sat in my office, under the age of 16'  I was 8 at the time.

The protocol for a teacher with such experience was to just let it slide -- she would probably retire in the coming years --. The effect was that I had a D- average until I left that school, but co-incidentally I had an A+ average when I got to junior high, and I even got credit for an extra class completing 6 classes in a 5 class semester.  It was that year that I became an English tutor for new immigrants, English was my fourth language and I was fluent in Cantonese. 1/5 of my students where new immigrants from Hong Kong.<small> to put that in to perspective, I am a blond haired nord, and Cantonese was my third language</small>.

... Has anyone read Malcolm Gladwells outliers?


 
