---
layout: post
title: "How to hire good DevOps?"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}


This has all said before, but I was asked recently about my opinions on the subject and this is what I had to say.

<HR>

We want the good ones, but sometimes we interview people who are smarter than we realize.

With every revolutionary idea we see how resistant people can be to change. -- Man has created many structures in the world, only for another man to realize that it was designed on false interpretations. If this other man tries to refute the validity of the structure, there will be another hundred men prepared to defend the smaller elements of the design that they intimately understand. Claiming that the roof supports the walls, and the walls hole the roof in place. not listening to the argument about the quicksand the foundation was laid upon.

As Martin Fowler stated in a presentation "Why look for qualified DevOps when you can make them yourself". More concisely, culture is something we make. By merely adding a cultured person to a place without culture they may leave because we don’t fit their culture. If we focus on good leadership with DevOps skills we can create great DevOps out of people who have no idea of what it is. However, we should also note that DevOps is a buzzword that has various meanings to various people. I just call it philosophy. :)

The most important thing is what the individual thinks. They are never wrong, but, how they feel about things is important. -- remember people thought Fowler was crazy in the beginning, now his blog posts are religion to many.   .. So, try to see if they can explain any contradictions to what we believe? but this is not that important since, good ideas will expose themselves if your team is open to listening to the seemingly ridiculous.

A new development tendency is to be explicate over implicit and opinionated as much as possible, to help accelerate development. -- That is to say that if everyone knows why/how we do things it will take less time to get started. The only catch is there are still lots of opinions. (my critique is, opinionated development can also prove that the developers haven't thought the whole process through)

... but everything should be a discussion, sometimes we are defending the walls that hold the roof, sometimes we are refuting the foundation of the building.


